>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JUNE 11: DONALD
TRUMP LOOKS TO EXPAND THE
ELECTORAL MAP, CAMPAIGNING IN
BATTLEGROUND STATES THAT USUALLY
FAVOR DEMOCRATS; NEW YORK CITY
EASES AWAY FROM CAR CULTURE AND
MAKES MORE ROOM FOR BIKES AND
PEDESTRIANS; AND, A LIFETIME
ACHIEVEMENT AWARD FOR ONE OF THE
MEN BEHIND "FIDDLER ON THE
ROOF."
>> WE RECOGNIZED THERE WAS
SOMETHING UNIVERSAL ABOUT THESE
STORIES, AND WE TRIED TO MAKE
THIS A SHOW THAT WOULD APPEAL TO
PEOPLE OF ALL FAITHS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THIS FIRST WEEKEND AFTER HILLARY
CLINTON CLINCHED THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION,
HER LIKELY OPPONENT IS TESTING
HIS FALL ELECTION STRATEGY.
REPUBLICAN BUSINESSMAN DONALD
TRUMP CAMPAIGNED IN THE SWING
STATE OF FLORIDA TODAY-- THE
BATTLEGROUND WITH THE MOST
ELECTORAL VOTES AT STAKE, AND
WON TWICE BY PRESIDENT OBAMA.
FROM THERE, TRUMP WENT ON TO
PENNSYLVANIA, WHICH DEMOCRATIC
NOMINEES HAVE WON EVERY NOVEMBER
SINCE 1992.
IN TAMPA TODAY, TRUMP SAID, IN
HIS VIEW, THE FORMER SECRETARY
OF STATE, SENATOR, AND FIRST
LADY IS UNQUALIFIED TO BE
PRESIDENT.
>> LOOK AT THE MESS THAT SHE'S
GOT US INTO WITH SYRIA,
EVERYTHING SHE TOUCHES.
AND YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE FOUR
MORE YEARS OF THAT?
WE WON'T HAVE A COUNTRY LEFT,
FOLKS, BELIEVE ME.
>> Sreenivasan: IN HIS REMARKS
TODAY, TRUMP REPEATEDLY CALLED
MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR ELIZABETH
WARREN, WHO ENDORSED CLINTON
THIS WEEK AND CLAIMS NATIVE
AMERICAN HERITAGE, "POCAHONTAS,"
AS HE HAS DONE BEFORE.
IN A RESPONSE, HILLARY CLINTON
TWEETED THAT TRUMP INSULTS
ANYONE WHO CHALLENGES HIM, AND
REPUBLICANS SHOULD DISAVOW.
EARLIER TODAY, HER CAMPAIGN TOOK
TO TWITTER TO CRITICIZE THE
DEFUNCT TRUMP UNIVERSITY,
RELEASING A SATIRICAL
INFOMERCIAL SAYING, "PAD
DONALD'S POCKETS AND PUT YOUR
OWN FINANCES AT RISK, ALL FOR
THE LOW PRICE OF $35,000!"
THE FINAL PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY
OCCURS TUESDAY, WHEN WASHINGTON
D.C. DEMOCRATS VOTE.
VERMONT SENATOR BERNIE SANDERS
IS COMPETING FOR DELEGATES
THERE, DESPITE CLINTON HAVING
SECURED BOTH THE MAJORITY NEEDED
TO WIN THE NOMINATION AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S ENDORSEMENT.
THE PRESIDENT WILL START
CAMPAIGNING WITH CLINTON ON
WEDNESDAY IN WISCONSIN.
IN SYRIA, ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THREE SUICIDE AND CAR
BOMBINGS TODAY IN A
PREDOMINANTLY SHIITE SUBURB OF
DAMASCUS, THE NATION'S WAR-TORN
CAPITAL.
THE SYRIAN OBSERVATORY FOR HUMAN
RIGHTS SAYS THE ATTACKS KILLED
AT LEAST 20 PEOPLE AND WOUNDED
DOZENS MORE.
IN NORTHERN SYRIA, AMERICAN-
BACKED KURDISH FIGHTERS ARE SAID
TO BE ADVANCING ON ISIS-HELD
POSITIONS IN THE ALEPPO
PROVINCE.
THEY HAVE REPORTEDLY ENCIRCLED
THE TOWN OF MANBIJ, WHICH IS AN
ISIS STRONGHOLD, BUT THE
FIGHTING HAS TRAPPED THOUSANDS
OF CIVILIANS.
IN BANGLADESH, ISIS IS CLAIMING
RESPONSIBILITY FOR YESTERDAY'S
STABBING MURDER OF A HINDU
MONASTERY WORKER, THE LATEST IN
A WAVE OF SIMILAR ATTACKS.
PEOPLE TOOK TO THE STREETS IN
THE CAPITAL OF DHAKA TODAY TO
PROTEST THE EXECUTION-STYLE
KILLINGS OF RELIGIOUS MINORITIES
IN THE SUNNI-MUSLIM MAJORITY
COUNTRY.
OFFICIALS SAY ISLAMIC RADICALS
HAVE KILLED AT LEAST 18 PEOPLE
IN THE PAST TWO YEARS, INCLUDING
AID WORKERS, PROFESSORS, GAY
RIGHTS ACTIVISTS, AND MEMBERS OF
THE HINDU, CHRISTIAN, AND SHIITE
MUSLIM MINORITIES.
UNDER PRESSURE TO STOP THE
KILLINGS, BANGLADESH POLICE HAVE
DETAINED 1,600 SUSPECTS IN THE
PAST FEW DAYS, BUT OFFICIALS
SAID ONLY A FEW DOZEN ARE
SUSPECTED ISLAMIC MILITANTS.
TRAIN, TRASH, AND NOW AIRLINE
STRIKES ARE PLAGUING FRANCE.
WHEN AIR FRANCE PILOTS WENT ON
STRIKE TODAY TO PROTEST A PAY
CUT, THE AIRLINE CANCELLED 20%
OF ITS FLIGHTS.
PILOTS SAY THEY WON'T FLY FOR
FOUR DAYS.
THE STRIKE COMES JUST AS FRANCE
IS HOSTING TWO MILLION VISITORS
ATTENDING THE EUROPEAN SOCCER
CHAMPIONSHIPS.
METRO TRAIN DRIVERS HAVE ALREADY
BEEN ON STRIKE FOR DAYS,
OIL REFINERY WORKERS HAVE WALKED
OFF THE JOB, AND A STRIKE BY
SANITATION WORKERS HAS LEFT
MOUNDS OF UNCOLLECTED GARBAGE ON
PARIS STREETS.
CALIFORNIA IS THE FIRST STATE IN
THE COUNTRY SEEKING TO OFFER
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS HEALTH
INSURANCE UNDER THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, COMMONLY KNOWN
AS OBAMACARE.
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN SIGNED A
BILL YESTERDAY THAT COULD ALLOW
THOSE IMMIGRANTS TO BUY HEALTH
INSURANCE-- WITHOUT ANY
GOVERNMENT SUBSIDIES-- FROM THE
STATE'S HEALTH EXCHANGE.
THE STATE MUST FIRST OBTAIN A
WAIVER FROM THE FEDERAL LAW THAT
BARS UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS
FROM OBTAINING INSURANCE THROUGH
EXCHANGES SET UP UNDER
OBAMACARE.
IF THE STATE GETS THE WAIVER, IT
EXPECTS 400,000 OF ITS ESTIMATED
2.5 MILLION UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS WOULD BE ELIGIBLE TO
APPLY.
CALIFORNIA ALREADY ALLOWS THE
CHILDREN OF UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS GET HEALTH COVERAGE
THROUGH MEDICAID.
FIND OUT HOW RESEARCHERS
UNCOVERED A HIDDEN RUIN BURIED
IN THE ANCIENT JORDANIAN CITY OF
PETRA.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: GAWKER MEDIA,
WHICH RUNS THE GOSSIP-DRIVEN
WEBSITE GAWKER AND A HALF DOZEN
OTHER SITES, IS OFFERING ITSELF
UP FOR SALE AFTER FILING FOR
BANKRUPTCY YESTERDAY.
THE FILING CAME THREE MONTHS
AFTER GAWKER LOST AN INVASION OF
PRIVACY LAWSUIT BROUGHT BY THE
FAMOUS ONE-TIME PROFESSIONAL
WRESTLER KNOWN AS "HULK HOGAN,"
WHO HAD SUED GAWKER FOR POSTING
A VIDEO IN 2012 OF HIM HAVING
SEX WITH A WOMAN WHO WAS NOT HIS
WIFE.
A JURY AWARDED HOGAN
$140 MILLION IN DAMAGES, AND THE
TRIAL JUDGE UPHELD THE VERDICT,
THOUGH GAWKER IS APPEALING.
IT TURNS OUT HOGAN'S SUIT WAS
BANKROLLED BY BILLIONAIRE
BUSINESSMAN PETER THIEL, AN
EARLY EMPLOYEE OF PAYPAL AND ON
THE BOARD OF FACEBOOK.
THIEL HAD HIS OWN GRIEVANCE WITH
GAWKER FOR OUTING HIM AS GAY IN
AN ARTICLE YEARS BEFORE.
THE CASE RAISES QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE JOURNALISTIC JUDGEMENT
OF NEWS ORGANIZATIONS AS WELL AS
FREEDOM OF THE PRESS.
JOINING ME HERE IN THE STUDIO TO
DISCUSS THIS IS EDMUND LEE.
HE'S THE MANAGING EDITOR OF
RECODE, A NEWS SITE THAT
SPECIALIZES IN COVERING THE TECH
INDUSTRY.
SO, FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVEN'T BEEN
FOLLOWING THIS THING CHAPTER BY
VERSE, THIS IS HULK HOGAN,
FORMER WRESTLER, WE'VE GOT A SEX
TAPE.
WE HAVE RACIST COMMENTS HERE.
AND WE'VE GOT THIS SCRAPPY
LITTLE WEB SITE THAT DOESN'T
CARE AND WANTS TO PUBLISH ALL
THIS.
BUT IT GOES TO THE CORE OF THE
FREEDOM OF THE PRESS, WHERE THE
FREEDOM OF THE PRESS EXTENDS TO
EVEN PRESS YOU DON'T FIND
FAVORABLE.
>> EXACTLY.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT THE
FIRST AMENDMENT PROTECTION HAS
BEEN ABOUT, IS TO PROTECT THE
SPEECH YOU DON'T LIKE, OR DON'T
AGREE WITH, AND TO HAVE THE
DIVERSITY OF VOICE OUT THERE IS
WHAT ULTIMATELY LEVELS OUT IN
TERMS OF HAVING THAT FREEDOM.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO OUR DEMOCRACY,
ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK THE OTHER THING THAT'S
HAPPENING HERE, WHAT THIEL IS
DOING IS EFFECTIVELY ACTING LIKE
A REGULATOR.
HE'S DECIDING WHAT IS AND ISN'T
JOURNALISM.
HE SAID PUBLICLY THAT HE FELT
THIS WAS ONE OF HIS BETTER
PHILANTHROPIC CAUSES, WHICH IS
TO PUT GAWKER OUT OF BUSINESS.
AND IT LOOKS LIKE HE MIGHT END
UP GETTING HIS WAY THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: CONSIDERING
HE'S NOT THE ONLY BILLIONAIRE IN
TOWN, ANY BILLIONAIRE COULD
DECIDE TO PICK ON ANY
PUBLICATION, ESPECIALLY THE
SMALLER, DIGITAL ONES.
>> EXACTLY, AND THIEL SHOWED US
A MODEL FOR HOW THAT COULD
HAPPEN AND SHEDS LIGHT ON THE
ECONOMICS OF WEB PUBLISHING.
GAWKER IS A SUCCESSFUL WEB
PUBLISHER.
IT HAS GROWN AND GROWN AND HAS
PROFIT BUT IT DOES NOT HAVE
ENOUGH PROFIT TO FEND OFF THESE
LEGAL CHALLENGES.
THAT ALSO SPELLS POTENTIALLY
DIFFICULTIES FOR ALL KINDS OF
WEB PUBLISHING, WHICH IS NOW THE
MODEL FOR PUBLISHING, PERIOD.
I MEAN, THE BIG COMPANIES LIKE
TIME INC., AND CONDE NASTE, AND
EVEN THE "NEW YORK TIMES,"
THEY'RE HAVING TO STRIP DOWN AND
HAVE SMALLER PROFITS AND GO
AFTER PEOPLE ON THE WEB, AND I
THINK PUBLISHING IS NOT WHAT IT
ONCE WAS, AND I THINK THAT'S
WHAT THE REAL DANGERS HERE IS.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
FIRST BIDS HAS BEEN BY A COMPANY
CALLED ZIFF DAVIS, MORE
IN THE TRADITIONAL TECH MEDIA
WORLD.
>> NICHE PUBLICATION, RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: NOT GOING
AGAINST THE GRAIN AS GAWKER DID
IN COVERING THE TECHNOLOGY
INDUSTRY.
SILICON VALLEY, CULTURE THERE
HAS BEEN A BIT ABRASIVE TO THE
IDEA OF GAWKER BECAUSE THEY
DON'T LISTEN TO THE PRESS
RELEASE, THEY DON'T OBEY THE
PRESS EMBARGOES.
THEY WRITE WHAT THEY WANT TO
WRITE.
>> IF ZIFF DAVIS IS SUCCESSFUL
IN MAKING THIS ACQUISITION, ZIFF
DAVIS IS A MUCH MORE
TONED-DOWN PUBLICATION, OR
COMPANY WITH PUBLICATIONS.
NO MATTER WHAT HAPPENS, I THINK
THE GAWKER OF OLD, OR THE GAWKER
WE KNOW TODAY WILL CEASE TO
EXIST.
I THINK IT WILL BE A SHELL OF
ITS FORMER SELF.
I THINK THE CONTENT WILL
ULTIMATELY HAVE TO BE TONED
DOWN, AND, AGAIN, THAT'S CLEARLY
THE CHILLING EFFECT OF THESE
SUITS AND WHAT THIEL REALLY SET
OUT TO DO IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: VERY BRIEFLY,
THE POSSIBLE OUTCOMES, LET'S
SAY THEY WIN THE APPEAL, THEY
DON'T HAVE TO PAY THE $140
MILLION, AND THEY GET THIS BUYER
TO PAY THEM $100 MILLION-- OR
WHATEVER IT IS.
THE OTHER POSSIBILITY IS THEY
LOSE THE APPEAL, THEY HAVE TO
BUY THIS, AND THEN NO ONE WANTS
TO TOUCH GAWKER WITH A TEN-FOOT
POLE, KNOWING YOU HAVE TO PAY
SOMEONE $140 MILLION.
>> I DO THINK GAWKER HAS A
REALLY STRONG LEGAL ARGUMENT TO
MAKE AND I THINK THERE'S A VERY
GOOD CHANCE THEY WILL WIN ON
APPEAL.
BUT EVEN IF THAT WERE THE CASE,
I THINK IT STILL DOESN'T MATTER
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, AGAIN GAWKER
WON'T BE WHAT IT ONCE WAS.
AND I THINK THAT'S THE BIGGER
EFFECT HERE.
AND THAT'S REALLY THE SORT OF
VICTORY THAT THIEL IS GOING TO
CLAIM HERE, IF IT TURNS OUT THAT
WAY, IS THAT HE BASICALLY CUT
GAWKER DOWN, YOU KNOW.
>> Sreenivasan: EDMUND LEE OF
RECODE, THANKS FOR JOINING US
US.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CITY STREETS
WE WALK, RIDE, OR DRIVE ON EVERY
DAY ARE USUALLY AN AFTERTHOUGHT
FOR MOST OF US, BUT NOT FOR
JANETTE SADIK-KHAN, WHO IS
CREDITED WITH RE-THINKING THE
STREETS OF NEW YORK CITY-- HOW
THEY WORK AND WHO THEY SERVE.
SHE WAS THE CITY'S
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSIONER
UNDER FORMER MAYOR MICHAEL
BLOOMBERG, AND SHE HAS AUTHORED
A BOOK ABOUT HOW CITIES AROUND
THE COUNTRY CAN MAKE THEIR
STREETS LESS CAR-FOCUSED.
AS PART OF OUR SERIES, "URBAN
IDEAS," ABOUT INNOVATIVE WAYS
CITIES GOVERN AND SOLVE
PROBLEMS, I RECENTLY SAT DOWN
WITH SADIK-KHAN IN THE HEART OF
ONE OF HER BIGGEST PROJECTS--
TIMES SQUARE.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW IS IT
POSSIBLE THAT WE'RE SITTING IN
TIMES SQUARE?
WHAT HAPPENED HERE THAT MADE
YOU THINK YOU COULD BUILD THIS?
>> WELL, TIMES SQUARE HAD BEEN A
TANGLE OF TRAFFIC FOR ALMOST 200
YEARS, SINCE IT WAS FIRST
CREATED, AND PEOPLE HAD TRIED
FOR YEARS TO FIX IT.
THEY TRIED SLIP LANES AND SIGNAL
CHANGES, AND NOTHING WORKED.
AND SO, I BROUGHT THE IDEA TO
MAYOR BLOOMBERG THAT WE SHOULD
TRY SOMETHING BIGGER.
>> Sreenivasan: IN 2009, JANETTE
SADIK-KHAN PROPOSED CLOSING
BROADWAY TO CARS FROM
42nd STREET TO 47th STREET AND
TURNING IT INTO A QUARTER-MILE-
LONG PEDESTRIAN PLAZA.
>> AND IT STARTED JUST WITH SOME
TRAFFIC CONES AND SOME BEACH
CHAIRS, AND IT'S REALLY BECOME A
MODEL FOR OTHER CITIES TO TRY
THINGS OUT.
YOU CAN REIMAGINE THEM, TEST IT,
MEASURE IT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PERMANENT
REDESIGN COST $27 MILLION, AND
THE CITY MEASURED THE CHANGING
TRAFFIC FLOW THROUGH TIMES
SQUARE USING G.P.S. DEVICES IN
13,000 TAXIS.
>> IT WAS MUCH SAFER FOR BOTH
PEDESTRIANS AND MOTORISTS.
THE TRAFFIC WORKED JUST FINE.
AND IT BECAME AN ECONOMIC
BLOCKBUSTER.
IT BECAME ONE OF THE TOP TEN
RETAIL LOCATIONS ON THE PLANET.
>> Sreenivasan: IN HER BOOK
"STREETFIGHT," SADIK-KHAN
ARGUES THE NATION NEEDS TO
SHIFT THE FOCUS OF CITY STREETS
AWAY FROM CARS.
>> OUR STREETS, FOR SO MANY
YEARS, HAVE BEEN USED TO MOVE
CARS AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE FROM
POINT A TO POINT B.
AND PEOPLE HAVE EVEN FORGOTTEN
THAT THERE ARE OTHER USES FOR
THE STREETS-- WHETHER TO WALK OR
TO BIKE OR TO TAKE THE BUS.
AND IT'S NOT ANTI-CAR.
IT'S REALLY PROCHOICE.
IT'S ABOUT PROVIDING OPTIONS TO
MAKE IT EASIER FOR PEOPLE TO GET
AROUND.
>> Sreenivasan: BY 2013, WHEN
SADIK-KHAN'S TENURE IN MAYOR
BLOOMBERG'S ADMINISTRATION
ENDED, THE CITY HAD REPURPOSED
220 ACRES OF SPACE, TAKING
AWAY LANES FROM CARS AND GIVING
THEM TO PEDESTRIANS, BIKES, AND
BUSES.
SADIK-KHAN SAYS DEDICATED CAR
TURN LANES, RESTRICTED BUS
LANES, AND ADJUSTING TRAFFIC
LIGHT SIGNALS BASED ON REAL-TIME
TRAFFIC CONDITIONS HELPED
INCREASE AVERAGE DRIVING SPEEDS
IN CENTRAL MANHATTAN BY NEARLY
7%.
AT THE SAME TIME, TRAFFIC AND
PEDESTRIAN FATALITIES IN THE
CITY HAVE DECLINED.
>> OUR STREETS HAVE NEVER BEEN
SAFER.
AND IN FACT, WITH MORE AND MORE
CYCLISTS ON OUR STREETS, WE'VE
SEEN A ONE-THIRD REDUCTION IN
CYCLIST INJURIES AND FATALITIES,
WHILE WE'VE SEEN A QUADRUPLING
OF PEOPLE BIKING AROUND.
>> Sreenivasan: MUCH OF THE
INCREASE IN BIKING IS FROM CITI
BIKE, THE BIKE SHARE PROGRAM
FUNDED IN PART BY CITIBANK AND
MASTERCARD THAT'S BEEN USED MORE
THAN 26 MILLION TIMES SINCE
LAUNCHING THREE YEARS AGO.
THE CITI FOUNDATION IS ONE OF
THE UNDERWRITERS OF THIS
PROGRAM.
>> SO IT WAS THE FIRST NEW
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM IN NEW
YORK CITY IN 60 YEARS AND
NO COST TO TAXPAYERS.
SO I THINK IT'S A MODEL,
PARTICULARLY IN AN ERA WHERE WE
DON'T HAVE A LOT OF FEDERAL
FUNDING AND STATE FUNDING, AND
LOCAL FUNDING IS HARD TO COME
BY.
>> Sreenivasan: SADIK-KHAN
SAYS THE HUGE NUMBER OF RIDERS
ACTUALLY MAKES BIKING SAFER.
>> YOU'RE NOT GOING TO RIDE THE
TOUR DE FRANCE ON THIS BIKE--
THEY'RE, LIKE, HEAVY!
RIGHT?
>> Sreenivasan: RIGHT.
>> AND SO I THINK THAT ALSO GOES
A LONG WAY TO CALM DOWN THE
STREETS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEW YORK CITY
STREETS NOW HAVE 400 MILES OF
BIKE LANES, WITH MORE THAN
30 MILES SEPARATED FROM VEHICLE
TRAFFIC BY A LANE OF PARKED
CARS, AN IDEA SADIK-KHAN
COPIED AFTER SEEING IT IN
COPENHAGEN, DENMARK.
BUT WITH THE NEW LANES CAME A
BACKLASH, INCLUDING FROM DRIVERS
WHO COMPLAINED BIKE LANES CAUSED
MORE TRAFFIC CONGESTION.
A 1.8 MILE LANE BORDERING
BROOKLYN'S PROSPECT PARK IS
STILL MIRED IN LITIGATION SIX
YEARS AFTER BEING INSTALLED.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT IS THAT
CREATES THAT INITIAL RESISTANCE
TO CHANGE?
PEOPLE GET PRETTY COMFORTABLE
WITH HOW A SPACE LOOKS AND HOW A
SPACE IS USED, UNTIL THEY TRY
SOMETHING ELSE, RIGHT?
>> IT'S A REALLY GOOD QUESTION,
BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE REALLY
ATTACHED TO THE STATUS QUO.
AND WHEN YOU CHANGE THE STATUS
QUO, WE FIND THE STATUS QUO
PUSHES BACK HARD, RIGHT?
AND PEOPLE HAVE EXPECTATIONS
THAT OUR STREETS ARE FOR CARS.
AND THEY DON'T REALLY HAVE ANY
OTHER EXPECTATIONS THAT THEY CAN
BE ANYTHING ELSE.
AND SO, THAT WAS ONE OF THE
INNOVATIONS THAT WE DID IN NEW
YORK CITY.
WE MOVED FAST TO SHOW THAT YOU
COULD HAVE CHANGE ON YOUR
STREET, THAT IT WOULD BE BETTER.
THAT YOU CAN BUILD IN OTHER WAYS
TO GET AROUND, JUST REALLY BY
NARROWING THE TRAFFIC LANES AND
OPENING UP THAT SPACE FOR OTHER
USES.
>> Sreenivasan: WITH MORE THAN
HALF THE WORLD'S POPULATION
LIVING IN CITIES, EXPECTED TO
BECOME TWO-THIRDS BY 2050,
SADIK-KHAN HOPES NEW YORK SETS
AN EXAMPLE FOR A MORE
PERSON-CENTRIC VIEW OF
TRANSPORTATION.
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY CRITICAL
THAT WE BUILD IN REALLY GOOD
CHOICES FOR PEOPLE TO GET
AROUND, MAKING IT SAFE FOR
PEOPLE TO BIKE, MAKING IT FAST
FOR PEOPLE TO RIDE THE BUS,
MAKING IT EASY FOR PEOPLE TO
WALK AROUND.
THOSE ARE THE KIND OF, REALLY,
SECRET SAUCES FOR 21st CENTURY
CITIES.
AND REALLY, WE GET WHAT WE
DESIGN, AND WHEN WE DESIGN OUR
STREETS TO MAKE THEM WIDE AND AS
RUNWAYS FOR CARS, YOU KNOW,
THAT'S WHAT WE GET.
AND WHEN WE DESIGN OUR STREETS
FOR PEOPLE, AND MAKE IT EASIER
TO WALK AND BUS AND BIKE, WE GET
A MUCH DIFFERENT RESULT.
>> Sreenivasan: AT TOMORROW
NIGHT'S TONY AWARDS RECOGNIZING
THE BEST WORK ON BROADWAY, THE
BLOCKBUSTER MUSICAL "HAMILTON"
WILL BE CENTER STAGE WITH ITS
RECORD 16 NOMINATIONS.
BUT THERE WILL ALSO BE A
SPOTLIGHT ON SHELDON HARNICK,
WHO WILL RECEIVE A LIFETIME
ACHIEVEMENT AWARD.
HARNICK CO-WROTE THE CLASSIC
"FIDDLER ON THE ROOF," WHICH
PREMIERED ON BROADWAY IN 1964
AND IS NOMINATED THIS YEAR FOR
BEST MUSICAL REVIVAL.
A SECOND HARNICK MUSICAL, "SHE
LOVES ME," IS ALSO NOMINATED FOR
BEST REVIVAL.
THE NEWSHOUR'S ZACHARY GREEN HAS
THIS PROFILE.
TRADITION!
>> Reporter: A HALF CENTURY
AFTER ITS PREMIERE, THE SONGS OF
"FIDDLER ON THE ROOF" ARE KNOWN
AROUND THE WORLD.
IT TELLS THE STORY OF TEVYE, A
POOR JEWISH DAIRYMAN, AND HIS
FAMILY, FACING OPPRESSION IN
RURAL RUSSIA AT THE TURN OF THE
20th CENTURY.
THIS PRODUCTION AT THE BROADWAY
THEATER MARKS THE FIFTH TIME
"FIDDLER" HAS BEEN REVIVED ON
BROADWAY.
>> THIS IS ONE OF THE FINEST
CASTS WE'VE EVER HAD.
SO REVISITING THE SHOW HAS BEEN
A THRILL.
>> Reporter: EVEN AT 92 YEARS
OLD, LYRICIST SHELDON HARNICK
HAS BEEN DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN
THIS REVIVAL, HELPING CHOOSE THE
DIRECTOR AND ATTENDING
REHEARSALS.
WE SPOKE WITH HIM AT SARDI'S
RESTAURANT, FAMOUS FOR ITS
CARICATURES OF BROADWAY STARS;
AMONGST THEM, HARNICK'S OWN
LIKENESS.
HARNICK SAYS THE INSPIRATION FOR
"FIDDLER" CAME WHEN HE RECEIVED
A BOOK BY HUMORIST SHOLEM
ALEICHEM.
>> THE STORIES WERE RIVETING.
AND WHAT WAS ASTONISHING ABOUT
THEM WAS THAT SOME OF THEM WERE
ACTUALLY TRAGIC, AND YET THERE
WAS A GREAT DEAL OF HUMOR IN
THEM.
AND BY THE TIME YOU GOT TO THE
END OF THE STORY, YOU MIGHT BE
CRYING, BUT YOU WERE LAUGHING
ALONG THE WAY.
SO I SENT IT TO JERRY BOCK, AND
I SAID, "THIS IS OUR NEXT
MUSICAL."
>> Reporter: COMPOSER JERRY BOCK
AND HARNICK HAD ALREADY WRITTEN
HIT MUSICALS LIKE "SHE LOVES
ME," ALSO A CURRENT BROADWAY
REVIVAL, AND "FIORELLO," ABOUT
NEW YORK CITY MAYOR LAGUARDIA.
BUT "FIDDLER" WOULD BECOME THEIR
MOST SUCCESSFUL COLLABORATION
AND PRODUCED THEIR BEST KNOWN
SONG, BASED ON ALEICHEM'S PROSE.
IF I WERE A RICH MAN
ALL DAY LONG I'D
BITTY BITTY BUM
IF I WERE A WEALTHY MAN!
>> I FIND IT A LITTLE
EMBARRASSING-- IF SOMEBODY READS
ONE OF THE STORIES CLOSELY, HE
WILL FIND THE LYRICS TO "IF I
WERE A RICH MAN."
I PRACTICALLY JUST TOOK THEM
RIGHT OUT OF THE STORY AND SET
THEM TO MUSIC.
THAT'S NOT ENTIRELY TRUE; I HAVE
SOME CRAFT.
BUT A LOT OF THOSE IMAGES ARE
IN THE STORIES.
>> Reporter: "FIDDLER'S" MAIN
STORY FOLLOWS THE STRUGGLES OF
TEVYE AND HIS WIFE, GOLDE, AS
THEY TRY TO MARRY OFF THEIR FIVE
DAUGHTERS.
MATCHMAKER, MATCHMAKER
MAKE ME NO MATCH
I'M IN NO RUSH
MAYBE I'VE LEARNED
>> Reporter: THE THREE ELDEST
INSIST ON MARRYING SOMEONE THEY
LOVE, DESPITE THE WISHES OF
THEIR WELL-MEANING PARENTS TO
FIND THEM WEALTHY SUITORS.
THAT DISASSOCIATION BETWEEN LOVE
AND MARRIAGE IS ILLUSTRATED IN
THE SONG "DO YOU LOVE ME," WHERE
TEVYE AND GOLDE ADMIT THEIR
FEELINGS FOR EACH OTHER AFTER 25
YEARS OF MARRIAGE.
>>  DO YOU LOVE ME?
>>  DO I LOVE YOU?
>> HARNICK WROTE IT AS A LATE
ADDITION TO THE MUSICAL DURING
ITS INITIAL PRE-BROADWAY RUN IN
DETROIT.
>> I WAS STANDING IN THE BACK OF
THE HOUSE, AND I SUDDENLY
STARTED TO SOB.
AND I THOUGHT, "WHY AM I WEEPING
LIKE THIS?"
AND THEN I THOUGHT, "IT'S
BECAUSE I WISHED THAT MY OWN
PARENTS HAD HAD THE RELATIONSHIP
THAT GOLDE AND TEVYE HAD HAD."
I GREW UP DURING THE DEPRESSION,
AND THERE WERE A LOT OF VICIOUS,
VIOLENT ARGUMENTS BETWEEN MY
PARENTS ABOUT MONEY.
NOT THAT THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN TEVYE AND GOLDE IS A
SIMPLE, LOVING RELATIONSHIP;
IT'S A COMPLEX RELATIONSHIP, BUT
BASICALLY IT'S A LOVING
RELATIONSHIP.
AND IT JUST AFFECTED ME, AND I
STARTED TO CRY.
SO THERE WAS MUCH MORE IN THE
SONG THAN I KNEW WHEN I WROTE
IT.
>> Reporter: "FIDDLER" OPENED ON
BROADWAY TO RAVE REVIEWS AND
WENT ON TO SWEEP THE 1965 TONY
AWARDS.
THE ORIGINAL PRODUCTION RAN FOR
EIGHT YEARS-- AT THE TIME, THE
LONGEST RUN IN BROADWAY HISTORY.
THE 1971 MOVIE VERSION BROUGHT
THE SHOW TO A WIDER AUDIENCE.
ALTHOUGH THE STORY FOCUSES ON
THE PLIGHT OF RUSSIAN JEWS,
HARNICK SAYS THE PREJUDICE IN
THE FILM AND STAGE PRODUCTIONS
IS FAMILIAR TO MANY DIFFERENT
PEOPLE.
>> WE SAW A REMARKABLE
PRODUCTION OF IT IN A BLACK AND
PUERTO RICAN NEIGHBORHOOD, WHERE
THE CAST WAS ALL BLACK AND
PUERTO RICAN.
AND THE YOUNG BLACK MAN, HE WAS
15 YEARS OLD, WHO PLAYED TEVYE,
WAS SUPERB.
THEY UNDERSTOOD THE SHOW.
THEY UNDERSTOOD WHAT IT WAS
ABOUT, AND THAT KIND OF RACE
HATRED.
>> Reporter: AND HARNICK SAYS
THE MUSICAL'S END, WHEN TEVYE'S
FAMILY AND FELLOW VILLAGERS
LEAVE WITH ONLY THE BELONGINGS
THEY CAN CARRY, CAN STILL BE
SEEN IN REAL LIFE EVEN TODAY.
>> THE SYRIAN PROBLEM AND PEOPLE
LEAVING SYRIA AND HAVING NOWHERE
TO GO, IT RESONATES EVEN MORE.
IT SAYS SOMETHING TERRIBLE ABOUT
THE HUMAN RACE THAT IN 50 YEARS,
THAT IMAGE HAS ALWAYS BEEN
CURRENT.
THERE'S ALWAYS BEEN SOME PLACE
IN THE WORLD WHERE SOMETHING
HORRIBLE IS GOING ON.
>>  TO US AND OUR GOOD FORTUNE!
BE HAPPY!
BE HEALTHY!
LONG LIFE!
>> Reporter: BUT DESPITE THE
TIMELESS QUALITY OF "FIDDLER ON
THE ROOF," HARNICK SAYS THE
MUSICAL'S ENDURING LEGACY IS
STILL REMARKABLE TO HIM.
>> THAT WE WOULD RUN EIGHT
YEARS, AND THAT THE SHOW WOULD
BECOME WHAT IT WAS, WAS A
SURPRISE TO US.
IT'S KIND OF STILL A SURPRISE.
I MUST SAY IT'S A VERY PLEASANT
SURPRISE.
WE RECOGNIZED WHEN WE READ THE
STORIES, THAT THEY WERE NOT JUST
ABOUT A JEWISH FAMILY, THAT
THERE WAS SOMETHING UNIVERSAL
ABOUT THESE STORIES.
AND WE TRIED TO REALIZE THE
UNIVERSALITY OF WHAT WAS IN
THOSE STORIES, AND TO MAKE THIS
A SHOW THAT WOULD APPEAL TO
PEOPLE OF ALL FAITHS AND ALL
BELIEFS.
>>  TO LIFE!
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
ITALY'S COAST GUARD SAID TODAY
IT RESCUED MORE THAN 1,300
MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES TRYING TO
CROSS THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA FROM
NORTH AFRICA TO ITALY.
THAT BRINGS THE THREE-DAY TOTAL
OF PEOPLE RESCUED PAST 3,000.
50,000 PEOPLE HAVE COME ASHORE
IN ITALY DURING THIS THIRD YEAR
OF MASSIVE MIGRANT CROSSINGS.
THE TRAFFIC ALONG THE
AFRICA-TO-ITALY ROUTE HAS
INCREASED SINCE THE EUROPEAN
UNION CRACKED DOWN ON THE ROUTE
BETWEEN GREECE AND TURKEY IN
MARCH.
ON TOMORROW'S PROGRAM, JEFF
GREENFIELD ON THE POLITICS OF
THE OUTSIDER CANDIDATE.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.